EFS:
 
  It is a shared file system used with amazon EC2.  

  With amazon EFS, applications running on multiple EC2 instance can access four file systemat the same time and the service uses the industry standard NFSV4 file access protocol-network file system 4.02 4.1.
  
  We can create EFS using AWS console within few clicks (or) AWS SDK (or) by AWS comand line interface.  

  EC2 instance in the amazon VPC can mount your file system and begin storing data in EFS.
  
  Amazon EFS manager all the infra structure for us and automatically scales your files of the system storage capacity up (o4r) down as we add(or) remove files.

  Ensuring us always have the storage, while reducing the consuming in administration task.

  We have to only pay for the space of the files and directories. There's no minimum fee and no setep cost.

  Making sure four data is available are secure is really important.
  
  It is designed to be durable and highly available and automatically replicates our data access multiple availabilities around in the region.
 
  It gives the flexiblity to control who can access the file system and their contents.

  Amazon voc security group and network access control list allow you to manage network access to amazon EFS.

  File and directory levelamazon EFS supports user and group read/ write/ executed permission and amazon EFS intergrated with AWS identity and access management (IAM) to control access to amazom EFS administrative API.


CONCLUSION:
 
           Amazon EFS lets us run application that we shared storage in the cloud and automate the consuming storage administration task frame you to focus on application and business.


PLACEMENT GROUP:-(Only theoredical) (10g connection)

  It is nothing but instance running on log network and instance to instance connect on log network.

  It is used only in big database end like hadoop why because it requries faster N/W and there br heavy load to database.


EFS is:

 Generally Available, but may not yet be available in your region

 Network filesystem 

 It is expensive compared to EBS (~10x more) but it gives extra features.

 It's a highly available service. 

 It's a managed service

 You can attach the EFS storage to an EC2 Instance

 Can be accessed by multiple EC2 instances simultaneously

 Since 2016.dec.20 it's possible to attach your EFS storage directly to on-premise servers via Direct Connect. 



EBS is:

 A block storage, This means you are able to choose which type of file system you want.

 It is really fast

 It is relatively cheap

 With the new announcements from Amazon, you can store up to 16TB data per storage on SSD-s.

 You can snapshot an EBS for backup reasons

 But it only exists in a particular region. Although you can migrate it to another region, you cannot just access it across regions.



S3 is:

 An object store (not a file system).

 You can store files and "folders" but can't have locks, permissions etc like you would with a traditional file system

 This means, by default you can't just mount S3 and use it as your webserver

 But it's perfect for storing your images and videos for your website

 Great for short term archiving (e.g. a few weeks). It's good for long term archiving too, but Glacier is more cost efficient.
 
 Great for storing logs
 
 You can access the data from every region (extra costs may apply)

 Highly Available, Redundant. Basically data loss is not possible (99.999999999% durability, 99.9 uptime SLA)
Much cheaper than EBS.
 
 You can serve the content directly to the internet, you can even have a full (static) website working direct from S3, without an EC2 instance



ADVANTAGES:

 Seamless integration

 Scale up and down automatically

 Fully managed servce

 Share file storage access across instance 

 Consident scalable performance

 Low cost

 High availability & dutable 

 Secure



CALCULATION:

 Total usage (GB-hours)=[GBx daysx (24hrs/day]

eg: 
 
 Total usage (GB-hours)=[250GBx 30daysx 24]
                       =180,000 GB-Hours
            GB-Months  =6000x0.30 
                       = 1800 


