3 types of load balaancers:
-> Network load balacer(Works on layer 4 of 7 layers of OSI)
-> Application: It reads the URL and sends the request to corresponding application.(works on layer 7 of 7layers of OSI)
-> Classic : It doesnt read the IP . It directly sends the request to the IP and port(works on layer 4)

Practicals:

Step 1: Create an AMI(While creating an AMI we shoud clicck on NO reboot checkbox)
Step 2: Create an empty load balancer
step 3: using autoscaaling group add an instance to your load balancer
		a.choose a template for your instance which needs to be added to your load balancer
		b.decide about your autoscaling like how many counts and when to increase.
step 4: Monitor your instance using cloud watch.
step 5: Set an alrm in cloud watch when to increase and when to decrease.
step 6: Increase the load using online perfomance tool or using stress test(loadimpact)
	(top command is usedx to find the cpu utiization)
step 7: check autoscaling is working or not.



Auto scaling group:

2 steps are there 
-> create launch configuratin 
	here in RT will use our AMI's 
	
-> create autoscaling group
	start with : minimum no of instances
-> autoscaling group

For load balancing, We have to have the servers at different zones.
steps:

1. create instance 1
2. create Instance 2
3.login to instance 1.
3. install the default package 
	yum install httpd -y
	service httpd start
	cd /var/www/html
	vi index.html
 	esc+:+wq
4. repeat the same steps for instance 2.
5 Go to load balancer
    Three types are there 
	1.application:used only by developer.
	2.Network: Networking people
	3.classic:
	
6. Define load balancer, assign security group(http ), configure security group,give the input for healthyunhealthu ping port etc
7.All the DNS name will be configured in alias record.

1. stop the servers
2. create image of 1 server and terminate tht also.
3.create a load balancer for trail create an empty load balancer and dont add any servers.
4. Now we have to autoscale 
	step1: lauch configuration
	step2:We have the machine in ami
	step3:give the name of launch configuration and security group
	step4:create autoscaling group and add the availability zones
	step5:click on advanved settings and configure your load balancer.
	step6:now scaling policies where we can give the number of innstances
	step7: Add alarm.
	step8:acongiure the add and reove properties.
	step9:Create autoscaling group.
	step10:now we have two ec2 instances running as per our configurtion
	step11:If we delete any one of s=server manually we will be created with a new server automatically.

Note:for deleting ami you have to deregister it and then you have to go to snapshot and delete that.



task 1:
When i hit the dns name first instance should come and when i hot nxt it should go to secon instance.

How to increase the memory or ram of an instance in 15 mints

How to copy the ami from one region to another region

How to reduce the volume ?

How to attach the volume created in 1a region to an instance in 1b region ?