RDS:
Relational database  service.

It is used to setup , operate and scale managed relational database in cloud, which involves multiple engine type available
and time consuming administrative tasks.It has endpoint service.
RDS instances and security :
 
DB instance are basic building blocks of amazon RDS. They can contain multiple user created database. They are isolaated DB environment in cloud.

RDS cross regiionSnap Shots:

Copy of DB snapshot is stored in different aws region which provides backup for disaster requiry and even it acts as a base for migration to different region.
RDS has multi az's deployement.

Once the db is created tehe endpoint has to be available.
After setting up the instance , we are going to create an ec2 instance.
We have to import the sql package in the new server.

"yum instaall mariadb"
copy the end point from db

"mysql -h endpoint -P 3306 -u greeen -p" -> Capital P is for port and small p is for pwd

It will ask for pwd. enter the pwd.

"show database;"



Dynamo DB:

it is a no sql database but helps you to create table, input the rersources ,scan and query the particular resources which u required as output.

It is a fully managed no SQL database, That provides fast and predictable perfomance with seamleass scalability

It allows you to create database table that can store and retrive aany amunt of data and serve any level of request traffic.

It is a flexible data  model in all gaming apps. 

For creating a table we will use read and write capacity units.

READ Capacity Units:
RC represents one strongly consistent read per seconnd.
The total available capacity is 4kb in size.

Write Capacity:

WC represents one write per second and round off to the next 1 kb in size.


Scan:
1.Incase of data retrival, Scan operation reads every item in the table or secondsry index.
2.by default it executes all the items in the table
3.You can use projection expression parameter to scan some of the tributes.
4.It find items based on primary key value.
5.defaultly it contains consistent read parameter to be set to true.
6.Filter expression applies after the scan finishes 

Querry:
1.you an query any table that has a partition key or sort key.
2.defaultly it contains consistent read parameter to be set to true or false
filter expression is applied to get the particular resources from th table.









